Merge run a node pages together (#2160)
OffchainLabs/arbitrum-docs: arbitrum-docs/run-arbitrum-node/03-run-full-node.mdx

---
title: 'How to run a full node for an Arbitrum or Orbit chain'
description: Learn how to run an Arbitrum node on your local machine
sidebar_position: 1
content_type: how-to
---

> This how-to provides step-by-step instructions for running a full node for an Arbitrum or Orbit chain, on your local machine.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This how-to provides step-by-step instructions for running a full node for an Arbitrum or Orbit chain on your local machine.
```

We provide here a summary of the parameters available, but we recommend reading the [full guide](/run-arbitrum-node/nitro/03-nitro-database-snapshots.mdx) if you plan on using snapshots.

- Use the parameter `--init.latest <snapshot type>` (accepted values: `archive`, `pruned`, `genesis`) to instruct your node to download the correspondant snapshot from the configured URL
- Optionally, use the parameter `--init.latest-base` to set the base URL when searching for the latest snapshot
- Note that these parameters are ignored if a database already exists
- When running more than one node, it's easier to manually download the different parts of the snapshot, join them into a single archive, and host it locally for your nodes. Please see [Downloading the snapshot manually](/run-arbitrum-node/nitro/03-nitro-database-snapshots.mdx#downloading-the-snapshot-manually) for instructions on how to do that.

## Required parameters

> We now list all parameters needed to configure your node. Select the appropriate option depending on the chain you want to run your node for.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following list contains all the parameters needed to configure your node. Select the appropriate option depending on the chain you want to run your node for.
```
